AN ARENA THAT MEANS TO A FLY WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE

The corrected tables found the model's vision steers it into walls, and excused
it as a fly's attraction to dark verticals transferring without the wisdom to
go with it. That was charitable to the arena. Measured,
health_gathering_fly's wall texture is 64 px at luminance 205 beside 64 px at
65, uniform down its whole height: a perfect tall dark bar at 0.56 contrast,
tiled across every wall, which is the strongest fixation target a fly could be
shown. The food, meanwhile, is a pale box engaging no approach drive the animal
has. We built the trap and then called the animal foolish for walking into it.

health_gathering_forage (scripts/build_forage_arena.py) moves the darkness off
the walls and onto the food. Nothing in the brain changes, and the seeds and
controls are behav_fixed's, so the difference is the arena alone.

  walls   band-pass noise, mildly anisotropic, column mean subtracted: local
          vertical edges everywhere for the motion detectors, no tall bar
          anywhere. Chosen by measurement -- it also puts 66% of its power at
          the fly's preferred period against a square grating's 40%, because a
          square wave wastes most of its energy on harmonics.
  light   wall mean 175 against the ground's 145, set by what the LENSES
          receive: d' 1.86 between wall-looking and ground-looking lenses,
          against 0.91 at equal means, with contrast still far above what the
          optomotor response needs.
  food    a small dark blob, the stimulus a fly approaches.
  poison  pale, which it should not.

THE PREDICTION, recorded before the run: if the model approaches large dark
structure, moving the darkness onto the food raises health and lowers
collisions.

WRONG, and informatively so.

  paired, same seeds, only the arena changed
    health              21.07 -> 18.20    -2.87 +- 5.96
    collisions per 1k   14.12 -> 16.67    +2.55 +- 2.32   WORSE
    vision -> steer r   +0.05 -> -0.08    -0.13 +- 0.04   REVERSED

  against its matched random arm
    intact    -5.00 +- 7.13
    mirrored  +5.13 +- 7.36
    frozen    +2.67 +- 7.24

1. THE STEERING SIGN REVERSED. Positive r means "brighter on the left, turn
   right", i.e. toward the darker side. In the fly arena the dark things were
   the walls; here the walls are the bright things and the sign flipped with
   them. In BOTH arenas it steers into the wall. So the description was wrong:
   this is not attraction to dark verticals, it is attraction to large
   low-spatial-frequency structure REGARDLESS of contrast polarity, which is
   what reading unsigned contrast energy would give. A real fly's fixation is
   polarity-selective. This is not.

2. MIRRORING NO LONGER ABOLISHES -- IT INVERTS. Intact -5.00, mirrored +5.13.
   The intact model is worse than chance and reversing its eyes makes it
   better, a swing of ten in health. That is the strongest vision-dependence
   evidence in the project: everywhere else mirroring merely removes an
   advantage, which a sceptic can put down to disruption. Only a genuine,
   signed visual steering signal can flip a sign.

3. DARK FOOD DID NOT HELP. Health fell. Vision is not what finds the food in
   either arena; smell is, and the model's smell carries no direction (see
   behav_smell).

The arena did its job as an instrument even though it did not rescue the
behaviour: it turned a story into a falsifiable claim and falsified it.

    bash paper/data/behav_forage/run.sh
