WHERE A TIC ACTUALLY GOES

The repo carried two beliefs about its own speed, and both were out of date.

BELIEF 1, in flydoom/lif_graph.py: the simulator is dispatch-bound, so a CUDA
graph that replays 200 launches as one unit is the fix. That module was written,
verified bit-identical over twelve steps, and then measured again in September:
the eager step had become 26x faster on its own (0.320 ms against the 8.50 ms
profiled in August) and graph replay is now 1.5x SLOWER than it, because the
graph faithfully replays a worse formulation -- one index_add per delay group
where the eager path uses a CSR product. The module already says so. It stays
unused, and correct, and that is the right outcome.

BELIEF 2, carried in the project notes: what remains is the 57 per-substep
sensory updates. Measured by removing them -- the same episode with the frame
HELD for the tic instead of interpolated across it, which is 1 retina update
instead of 57 -- they cost 2.5 to 3.2 ms of a tic, 3 to 5%. They are not the
bottleneck and have not been for some time.

WHAT IS, measured with one synchronisation per section per tic, fly arena eye
(1280x1024 gnomonic, three cameras, pyramid blur), spiking T4/T5, optic gain 16,
on a machine also running three episodes, so the absolute numbers are inflated
and the proportions are what to read:

    57 LIF substeps + motor.observe      39.4 ms    59%
    frame -> per-lens luminance          14.4 ms    22%
    ViZDoom, three cameras                9.8 ms    15%
    motor readout and decode              2.9 ms     4%
    fetching the frame                    0.3 ms     0.4%

The LIF step is most of a tic, and at 0.32 ms a step against 2.7M edges it is
not obviously improvable without changing the model: dt is 0.5 ms and 57
substeps span one Doom tic, so halving the substep count means doubling dt,
which is a modelling decision and not an optimisation.

WHAT WAS FIXED HERE. Two device-to-host synchronisations per tic, both of them
accidental and both bit-identical to remove:

  * sample() read the surround mean back into Python with float() to fill it
    into a tensor. It now stays a GPU scalar.
  * motor.sample() called float() on every monitored population separately, a
    dozen separate syncs per tic. They are stacked and transferred once.

Readout: 5.96 -> 2.85 ms per tic, measured in the same profiler run under the
same load. The rest of the tic is unchanged, which is the honest summary: the
saving is half of 4%.

    python scripts/profile_tic.py
